# Covid-based-society-monitoring-system
This project relies on a combination of IoT with ML. Its scope also depends on computer networking, website designing, artificial intelligence, and problem-solving. It uses knowledge in neural networks learned in artificial intelligence, server connections and terminologies learn in computer networks and systems, database monitoring, and sensor testing in electronic system design. The technology used in this system covers every part of the electronics and computer curriculum. 
Covid 19 outbreak in 2020 has infected an approximate total of 233 million individuals and 4.7 million deaths are recorded all over the world.Due to this Covid outbreak, there is an urgent need to keep an eye on corona carriers to prevent community spread. Many public places are opening and there is an urgent need to take some preventive actions towards keeping our society and community safe. India has faced community spread several times in this last year of the Covid pandemic, just because we were not having a system that will trace back Covid carriers.
We want to restrict people going outside of society so in this situation we will use an RFID reader at the entry and exit gate. Society members will scan his/her RFID tag while going out from society also the body temperature of that user will be recorded. The reader will send the data to RPi where it will check whether the tag is valid or not. RPi will Encode the tag data and will send it to the server via API. It will Find the corresponding user and update the exit count and corresponding time and temperature in the respective tables. If the society member’s outgoing count is greater than 5 his/her tag will be disabled for 5 days.
Now for ensuring the proper use of masks, a face mask detection system is to be designed using a Camera and ML algorithm. This can be designed by 6 several approaches but here we will be using Convolution Neural Networks (CNNs) because CNN has some of the dominant class of image recognition models.
Further, all these entry-exit and temperature records and also vaccination status of the people can be viewed and analyzed by respective authorities of
the society on the webserver. Also, society members will have access to some limited data.
